
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

<!-- badges: start -->

[![Codecov test
coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/grattan/grattantheme/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/grattan/grattantheme?branch=master)
[![R build
status](https://github.com/grattan/grattantheme/workflows/R-CMD-check/badge.svg)](https://github.com/grattan/grattantheme/actions)
[![Lifecycle:
stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-stable-brightgreen.svg)](https://www.tidyverse.org/lifecycle/#stable)

<!-- badges: end -->

# grattantheme

Create ggplot2 charts in the Grattan Institute style.

See the [grattantheme
vignette](https://grattan.github.io/grattantheme/articles/using_grattantheme.html)
to learn how to make your ggplot2 charts Grattan-y with `grattantheme`.

See the [Data
Visualisation](https://grattan.github.io/R_at_Grattan/data-visualisation.html)
chapter of `Using R at Grattan Institute` for more about how to make
great charts.

## Install grattantheme

The grattantheme package needs to be downloaded and installed from
Github. The easiest way to do this is with the devtools package. If you
don’t have the devtools package, install it:

`install.packages("devtools")`

Once devtools is installed, you can download and install grattantheme as
follows:

`devtools::install_github("grattan/grattantheme", dependencies = TRUE, upgrade = "always")`

Once grattantheme is installed, you can load it the same way you
normally load an R package:

`library(grattantheme)`

## Make your charts look nice

See the [grattantheme
vignette](https://grattan.github.io/grattantheme/articles/using_grattantheme.html)
for a more complete guide.

Use `theme_grattan()` to format your ggplot2 charts in a style
consistent with the Grattan style guide, including elements such as
gridline colours and line width, font size, etc. For scatter plots,
`theme_grattan(chart_type = "scatter")` provides a black y-axis.

Use `grattan_y_continuous()` to set default values for your vertical
axis that will work well with most Grattan charts.

Use `grattan_colour_manual(n)` or `grattan_fill_manual(n)` to format the
`n` coloured elements of your `ggplot2` plot. These functions will
choose appropriately-spaced Grattan colours, ordered from either light
to dark or the reverse.

The colours that will be used in your plot are:

<img src="man/figures/README-show-cols-image-1.png" width="75%" />

A range of colours from the style guide (such as `grattan_lightorange`,
`grattan_darkred`, and so on) are defined for your convenience. Each
colour has eight tints available, e.g. `grattan_lightorange` has lighter
variants `grattan_lightorange1` through `grattan_lightorange8` (closest
to white). These can be used to allow highlighting or when filling in
block colours behind text, such as when designing tables.

## Save your nice looking charts

Use `grattan_save()` to save your ggplot2 charts (eg. as `.png` or
`.pdf` files) for use elsewhere, such as in Powerpoint, LaTeX, or the
Grattan Blog, with the size and resolution set to style guide-consistent
values. You can save your charts in a variety of sizes and styles (see
`?grattan_save()` for a list).

Want to save your chart as a Powerpoint file? Use
`grattan_save(save_pptx = TRUE)` or the standalone `grattan_save_pptx()`
function.

Want to save your chart and accompanying data as a properly-formatted
.xlsx workbook? Use `grattan_save(save_data = TRUE)` or the standalone
`save_chartdata()` function.

Save your chart in all Grattan formats - along with chart data - using
`grattan_save_all()`.

## Save animated charts

Use `grattan_anim_save()` to save gganimate animations formatted in the
Grattan style.

## Notes

Some graph defaults (such as colour) will be modified during your R
session; restart R to restore all defaults.

Some manual modification to your chart will most likely be required in
order to make it fully consistent with the style guide, just as it would
in other visualisation software or Excel/Powerpoint.
